[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
ben thompson and nina warheart
good morning our headlines for you today
widespread criticism for the
metropolitan police over their handling
of a vigil held in south london
in memory of sarah everard
the met have defended their actions but
the home secretary has demanded a full
report into exactly what happened here
so it's ready it is
go go go go it's goodbye to the voice of
formula one murray walker dies at the
age of 97.
good morning yes we'll have tributes to
murray walker in sport
plus all eyes are on the grand slam for
wales
a resounding win in rome leaves them now
just one win away from the title
the weather's a tale of two halves today
with the bright start the rain to follow
for many
by this afternoon i'll have all the
details for you in around about quarter
of an hour
[Music]
good morning to you it is sunday the
14th of march our top story today the
metropolitan police commissioner dame
cressida dick
is facing calls to resign after fierce
criticism over how her force handled a
vigil in memory of sarah everard
officers were seen handcuffing and
leading women away from the event on
clapham common
close to where sarah was last seen alive
the met has defended its actions
but the home secretary priti patel has
asked for a full report
this report from simon jones contains
flashing images
[Applause]
police move in to try to break up an
unofficial vigil
to mark the life of sarah everard near
to the spot where she was last seen
more than a thousand people had gathered
the police said it wasn't safe
under lockdown restrictions but the
organization reclaimed these streets
which had cancelled its own plans for a
vigil said it was deeply saddened and
angered by
scenes of officers physically
manhandling women at an event
against male violence this image has
made front page news
people are angry they're angry that we
were silenced in this case about women
being silenced and women
having violence against them the police
said they had repeatedly asked people to
obey the law
and go home but in a tweet the home
secretary said
some of the footage circulating online
from the vigil in clapham is upsetting
i have asked the metropolitan police for
a full report on what happened
the mayor of london said although the
police have a responsibility to enforce
covid laws
the response was at times neither
appropriate nor proportionate
and there are calls for the mets
commissioner who visited clapham on
friday
to resign the leader of the liberal
democrat said cressida dick
had lost the confidence of the millions
of women in london
in the early hours of this morning the
police defended their actions
saying hundreds of people have been
tightly packed together
posing a very real risk of covert being
spread
part of the reason i'm speaking to you
tonight is because we accept
that the actions of our officers have
been questioned
we absolutely did not want to be in a
position
where enforcement action was necessary
but we were placed in this position
because of the overriding need to
protect people's safety
in brixton hill reclaim these streets
lit candles to mark the lives of women
killed by men sarah everard was
remembered too at downing street
and by the labour leader a serving
police officer wayne cousins has been
charged with her murder
he'll next appear in court on tuesday
sarah's family who describe her as
bright and beautiful
are now trying to come to terms with
their loss simon jones bbc news
well simon is live on clapham common for
us this morning simon
real pressure on the met this morning
isn't there in a widespread view that
they got this wrong
yes and i think the met know they're
facing some really serious
questions this morning about the
policing of the event
and that's why we had the unusual sight
just before one o'clock this morning of
a senior police officer coming out
in front of the cameras at scotland yard
to try to offer some sort of
explanation now the met didn't address
calls for the commissioner to resign
but what they did say is they face some
really difficult
policing decisions here now they said up
until about six o'clock yesterday
evening things have been
pretty calm a steady stream of people
had been arriving
bringing flowers taking a moment of
contemplation
but at six o'clock more and more people
started to arrive
some people started to attempt to give
speeches from the bandstand then the
crowd
pushed forward to try to hear those and
then the police said that's when things
became difficult now they say they spoke
to people tried to persuade them to
leave but a small minority
wouldn't officers say they had objects
thrown at them the crowd started pushing
and that's when they decided
to make arrests now four people were
arrested
but in terms of other events there were
vigils held
right across the country on a much
smaller scale
lots of people lit candles but in terms
of the protest i think there will be
pressure today on dame crested dick
to come out herself and explain what
happened
simon thank you simon jones on clapham
common this morning
a group of mps has warned that the
british army's aging armored vehicles
are in a deplorable state
and are likely to be outgunned in any
conflict the scathing report by the
commons defence select committee says
the army has been left with tanks which
are increasingly outdated
our defense correspondent jonathan beal
reports
boris johnson says the upcoming defense
review will
end an era of retreat and transform
britain's armed forces
but this report raises serious questions
as to whether the ministry of defense
can deliver on that promise mps say the
army's
aging fleet of tanks and armoured
vehicles are in a deplorable state
outmatched and outgunned by both allies
and potential adversaries
the report says the mods already
squandered large amounts of money
with little to show for it the mod spent
400 million pounds
to modernize hundreds of these warrior
armored vehicles
now the entire program's expected to be
scrapped
mps describe it as a woeful story of
bureaucratic procrastination
military indecision financial
mismanagement
and general ineptitude i welcome any
plan to modernize the army's
um equipment certainly over the years
some of it's been neglected and that's
long overdue
but by modernizing for example a tank
you've got to be very careful that you
don't produce a really
exquisite piece of equipment but don't
necessarily have it in enough numbers
or don't have enough people to crew
those vehicles
[Music]
the mod insists a significant increase
in funding for defence
will deliver an upgraded armor force to
meet the threats of the future
but the defense review still expected to
cut the number of tanks and armored
vehicles
mps say the army's armored capabilities
today
are at risk of being denuded on the
promise of technically advanced jam
tomorrow
jonathan beal bbc news
murray walker whose distinctive
commentary turned him into the voice of
formula one has died at the age of 97.
murray walt uh worked for both the bbc
and itv
in a career that spanned over half a
century commentating on his first grand
prix for the bbc at silverstone
back in 1949. andy swiss looks back at
his life
so it's ready it is
go go go go and schumacher leads
brilliant stuff
excitable and utterly unmistakable
murray walker was the high octane voice
behind a high octane sport
away it was once said that even in his
quieter moments
he sounded like his trousers were on
fire that's it
bang bang head off his passion came from
his father graham walker who raced
motorcycles
and was himself a commentator often
sharing the duties with young
murray the sensation is that tommy wood
went through
not on time not after time but ahead of
time
and after commentating on his first
british grand prix in 1949
murray walker became an integral part of
formula one
especially in a double act with former
world champion james hunt
but in a sport of inevitable risk he was
faced with tragedy too
world motor racing champion ayrton senna
has been pronounced
clinically dead when the great ayrton
senna died in a crash in 1994
walker's shock was only too clear
this is the blackest day for grand prix
racing that i can
remember in the many many years that
i've been covering the sport
walker never hid his emotions most
famously when his friend
damon hill won the world title in 1996.
damon hill exits the chicane and
wins the japanese grove tree and i've
got to stop
because i've got to love it my fruit for
real
spectacular driving watch this his
frenetic style wasn't without its gaffes
bernie it's some 17 years since you've
bought mclaren you've had some good
times and you've had some bad times
what do you remember best i don't
remember buying mclaren
but the mistakes only increased his
popularity looks through a completely
clean windscreen and that's the big
advantage of course of being in front
his energy and enthusiasm endeared him
to millions
and when he covered his final british
grand prix in 2001
the affection was plain to see one of
sport's most
imitated voices but they'll only ever be
one
murray walker
now more than 17 and a half thousand
chain stores closed last year across
britain that's according to new research
from the accountancy firm pwc
the figures which include hospitality
and leisure outlets reveal the worst
decline in more than a decade
there's also a warning that the full
impact of the pandemic on high streets
is yet to be felt the fa cup final at
wembley and the world snooker
championship
have been lined up to test the return of
big crowds to venues
around a dozen events in the spring will
be used to find ways to bring
fans and audiences back safely it's
expected that a number of pilots will
include spectators who are not
socially distanced
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc.co.uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news